
Ships were swaying gently at the dock. The pale moonlight filtered through their sails and masts, casting a maze of light and shadow that rippled on the surface of the sea. A gentle, but steadily rising, warm breeze was blowing inland, accompanied by a swelling tide. The brakish water kept pounding the boarding plank, repeatedly spilling floating debri all over it. 
At the landing of the boarding plank there stood a wooden carriage, beside which waited Viprachitti and four boys who were, as a matter of fact, brothers. Hlad, who was the eldest and therefore most experienced, had made himself a comfortable bed with a bit of dry hay. His snores could be heard emanating from under the carriage. The second brother, Ahlad, was pacing all around the carriage impatiently while Samhlad and Prahlad sat inside, blissfully absorbed by the board game they had brought along.
"When will he come?" Ahlad asked for the umpteenth time. Samhlad yawned and got up on his feet. He was finding it hard to stay awake, especially after losing three times in a row. He looked around, and his eyes fell on the figure of an old man lying prone next to the pier, snoring peacefully. Probably some sailor too drunk to make it to his boat, he thought.  There was an inn nearby, and those who couldn't handle their drink often ended up at the beach. An idea struck him, and he started searching in the sand for the dead jellyfish he'd seen earlier, so that he could put into the white beard of the drunk old man. 
"Looks like Gurudev is running late." Hlad observed, propping up half an eyelid.
"I knew he would be late." Viprachitti groaned. "He could have atleast allowed us to grab a bite to eat. The inn will close soon. I wonder what they might have for dinner..." 
"Dabraal caught a wild boar today." replied Hlad, from under the carriage. "He was just getting the grill going when we left."
"Grilled pork! I knew it!" groaned Viprachitti. "I knew it" was his favourite phrase, basically his cover up to hide the fact that he seldom did. "Its one of my favorites, you know...but no! Not while Shukracharya has his plans. Some plans they must be." Viprachitti had launched into a full blow tirade by now, mostly fueled by thoughts of the grilled pork he was missing out on. "Called us out in the middle of the night, and for what? So that we can watch drunkards snore on the beach? What's so urgent now that couldn't wait till morning?"
"The tide." came the answer from behind him.
Viprachitti's tirade was cut short abruptly. "Pranaam Gurudev" he said quickly, looking slightly mortified. All five bowed to the tall, dark figure of Shukracharya standing infront of them. Robed completely in black, he seemed to have simply materialised out of the night. 
"Ayushman bhava." Shukracharya blessed them, as best it is possible to bless someone while fixating them with a scorching frown. The Daitya Guru had a quick temper and such low quantities of patience as didn't matter. He usually seemed distracted and in a bit of a hurry, and tonight was no different. 
"Alright, lets go then. All aboard the chariot!" he sang. Samhlad started tediously to haul himself back into their carriage, but he was stopped short by a verbal assault upon his ears. 
"Not that chariot, fool!" Shukracharya lashed out at him. Then his face broke uncharacteristically into a smile. "From here we will take a different chariot." 
He was pointing at the shoreline, where a rather peculiar vehicle stood waiting at the water's edge. To Prahlad it seemed to be shaped like a fish. It tapered on either end, with a bulging centre that was as dark as the night. But what caught and held his attention wasn't the chariot but the horses reigned to it. There were ten of them, and they were sea-horses. Prahlad stared in amazement.
They stood still, and yet Prahlad felt like there was inherent motion in them. Their manes were flowy, as if a cold water vapour was rising from them, and their tails looked more like fins. "The Ucchaishravas, they are called." Shukracharya announced proudly, when he saw the four boys gawking.
They stood at the water's edge, and neighed softly. They were mostly white, except for their webbed feet and fins, which were bright shades of blue, yellow and red. A strange glow was in their skin, a soft bluish tinge that gave them an eerie, almost surreal look.
Shukracharya beckoned them closer to the chariot. 
"These are the only creatures who would travel to where we have to go. No other would dare." He smiled as if to himself. "But first, we will need to ensure that you able to handle our little trip. Come here, and stand in line." 
He poured some water out of his kamandal into his fist. "Ucchavasitam Budbudam!" he chanted, and sprinkled the cold water on the heads of his unsuspecting students. "Now get inside!" He ordered, ignoring their confused glances. 
Samhlad ran ahead excitedly so that he could secure the best seat, but as soon as he poked his head through the entrance, he stopped short. "It smells like a snail in here..." he declared. 
"We haven't got all night. Get in!" barked Shukracharya from behind him. Once he had made sure that the four boys were securely seated in the chariot, he took his seat at the front. The horses had been waiting silently, but when Shukracharya was seated, they started to move. 
The inside of the chariot was smooth like a hollowed out sea shell. The walls  seemed to be made from some strangely translucent material. They could make out the moon, and even some of the stars, through the roof. The horses waded slowly over the the sand but as the chariot moved deeper in the water, their speed increased. The oceans surf broke all around them in a burst of bubbles and pebbles, and then the view turned black as they went completely under the surface of the sea. 
Water started rising within the chariot. Samhlad and Prahlad exchanged uncomfortable looks. Samhlad, who did not even know how to swim, got onto his haunches and started rising along with the water. 
Atleast the water wasn't too cold. Soon Prahlad's body upto his neck was submerged- and then something strange happened. As it rose above his neck, the surface of the water bent, and curved upwards, as if an invisible force was pushing it downwards. The water had formed a bubble around his head! Samhlad sighed in relief, and dunked his head in. His smile looked grotesquely wide from inside his bubble.
They were in complete darkness, save for the bluish glow of the seahorses. Prahlad could not see much but he could feel the chariot swaying up and down. The experience was completely new to him, and oddly unnerving at first. The air felt slightly musty and stale inside his air bubble, and the voices around him sounded funny. Conversation was limited, however, mostly due to the presence of Shukracharya. The swaying of the chariot had become rhythemic, and soon Prahlad found his eyelids getting heavier and heavier... 

When he woke up, they were still going. He had become so used to the motion that at first he thought they were stationery. The view outside wasn't dark anymore - it was a deep electric blue. Then he saw the horses, and his breath caught.  
They were galloping in two rows, five horses each. Perhaps'galloping' is not the right term. Prahlad wasn't sure what to call it. He could see the seahorses much clearer now. Their webbed feet moved in unison while their broad tails swished rhythematically from side to side. If anything, they looked like they were flying through the water. The seahorses seemed to know exactly where they were going, for not once did they stop or wait for commands.
Prahlad could see schools of fish out of the window. Below, the sea floor was nowhere to be seen. All he could see was a deep blue vastness that stretched far and wide. The fishes were getting bigger and bigger, he thought, the deeper they went. And the colours of the ocean were so many and so strange that soon he felt like he was in whole different world. Samhlad touched his hand and pointed overhead. A huge fish, almost as big as their chariot itself, was passing over head. They could see its white underbelly as it twisted and turned back to swim towards them. Almost as fast as the chariot, it stayed with them, perhaps out of curiosity.
Then Hlad suddenly pointed forward. "Here we are" he said quietly, looking straight ahead, his face lit in wonder. "Mandrachal."
Prahlad saw a giant mass of earth in the distance. As the water cleared he could make out a mountain rising from the ocean floor. The head of Mandrachal wasn't visible to them - it jutted far above the surface. Prahlad had seen it from the shore, and now he couldn't wait to see what lay at the roots of the famous mountain. 
He was not dissapointed.
As they got closer, they could see something shining at the base of the mountain. It seemed to be round, and gave off a dull golden glow. They were staring at the feet of the great mountain, and the seafloor was broken here, with cliffs of black volcanic rock rising from the ocean floor.
A dome, made out of solid gold, sat nestled amoung the cliffs. Slowly, they could make out a whole palace built into the mountain. It was huge, immensely built. Tall pillars, made of black stone, and giant halls of unfathomable size lay steeped in shadow, their interiors shrouded in mystery by the mirky water. There were snakes there - so many snakes! 
They slithered and turned and swam in and out of the golden palace. They curled around the giant stone pillars that rose from unseen depths and were carved with strange figures- sculputures of men, and devas, and, of course, snakes. They swam in and out of the mirky halls. There were snakes of all sizes - from spindly wormlike snakes barely visible at a distance to huge serpents longer that their entire chariot - including the horses.
But they did not seem to be headed for the palace, for the chariot showed no signs of slowing down. As they passed above and beyond the undersea palace, Prahlad could make out a rift in the seafloor up ahead, like a deep chasm. The chariot was coming down, and suddenly the temperature of the water seemed to increase.
The mouth of abyss was red, and bubbles of smoke were rising out of it. 
"Who are we meeting?" asked Samhlad, a bit paler than usual. He did not look like he was in the mood to meet anyone, or anything, that lived in such a place.
"I guess we'll find out soon enough." replied Ahlad, trying to match pace with the swimming figure of Shukracharya.

-x-

The faces of the four boys glowed red. Thick amber like beads of sweat oozed out of their heads and trickled down their frightened faces. It was difficult to say if they were sweating more from fear or from the heat.
The mountain bled, bubbled and fumed below them. Rivers of lava swirled and clashed in a giant pit of fire and smoke. The air inside their bubbles was thick with a terrible stench. It smelt like death. 
They stood at the very edge of a fiery chasm. Shukracharya held out his staff, and started thumping it down repeatedly, as if he were ringing a bell. 
“Hail Vasuki! Queen of the underworld!” He boomed in a deep voice that echoed loudly.

And from thousands of feet below, there came a response. Above the constant rumbling of the volcano, there rose another sound. Something was coming their way, out of the very depths of the sea. The smoke increased.
Out of the steam and smoke rose a shape….larger and larger it loomed, till it filled their whole vision.
A terrible sound echoed in the darkness. It was a deep, tormenting, gut wrenching sound - like the combined hissing of a thousand angry snakes. The boys shuddered involuntarily.
They were scared because they had never seen a rudranaag before. 

The giant serpent flapped its leathery wings till its claws found purchase on the rocky cliff. The huge razor sharp nails cut into the rocks like a knife cuts into butter. Then it stooped down to face the man who had summoned it from the deep. 
“Shukracharya.” it hissed. "What brings you here?" 
"You know what I'm here for." replied Shukracharya.
Prahlad watched the rudranaag move towards Shukracharya. From where he stood, peering anxiously into the smoke, it seemed like she had stretched out her long scaly forearm.
The acharya stretched out his arms in turn -but Vasuki hesitated.
"But what do I get in return?" Her voice was like nothing like anything Prahlad had ever heard before. Her eyes gloated over the four boys. 
"Don't even think of it! They are his children." retorted Shukracharya.
"And these are mine!" she hissed in anger. "A child for a child...sounds like a fair deal to me."
Prahlad could see her clutching something in her claw. It was round and dazzling with colours. Prahlad tried to make out what it was but couldn’t see clearly, what with all the bubbles of smoke still pouring out. He stepped forward to get a better look...and slipped. 
What he had thought was a rock covered in moss was, in fact, only moss. Immediately, he twisted around to try and find his footing, but couldn't. There seemed to be a current of water flowing over the edge, and it was pulling him into the abyss. His brothers and Shukracharya hadn't noticed his peril. The steam made visibility poor, and moreover, they were completely engrossed by Vasuki.
He flailed his arms and pushed with his legs as hard as he could, but the current was only getting stronger. With a last effort, he managed to latch onto one of the rocks, but he had to strain really hard to maintain his grip. He shouted as loudly as he could, but he could not hear himself over the volcano. There was nothing he could do unless the current slowed down. 

He could hear Shukracharya's threatening voice booming over the edge, but he could not make out the words. Acharya sounded extremely pissed. Vasuki was not in a good mood either, and he could hear her angry hissing. But he could tell that she was somehow subdued. Her anger was laced with uncertainty. She almost sounded scared...
Then he saw her move. Vasuki folded her wings, and dove back into the crevasse. It created such a strong current that Prahlad was all but sucked inside. But he held on, somehow, for dear life.
Prahlad was fighting hard to maintain his grip on the rock. He was just wondering if anybody had even noticed that he was gone, when he felt a movement. He wasn't sure if he'd imagined it, but the rock he was hanging onto had moved. It moved again, and this time he was sure. The rock was creeping up, on its own, towards the edge!
Then he saw an eye open before him, and suddenly he realized what he had latched onto was not a rock but a huge turtle! 
Far below he felt another stir - Vasuki was on her way back. He readied himself. This was his chance - he could use the upward draft she would surely create to swim up out of the abyss. He bent forward, ready to spring, and then froze.
He shook is head, as if he couldn't believe his own ears. But there it was again- no doubt about it.
The turtle was singing! 
To his own surprise, Prahlad could understand some of the words- he heard "cup", and something that sounded like "brain". He could not hear the rest over the ruckus Vasuki made as she settled on the edge of the chasm. 
Taking no notice of the giant serpent just meters away, the turtle was still singing as it slowly made its way up, unhurriedly as ever. Prahlad had to strain to catch the words, and he leaned as close as he could towards the head of the turtle, till it was enveloped inside his air bubble.
There was a strange melody to the song that was almost hypnotic. The language was Prakrit, which his grandfather had taught him. 
If ever the cup of life shall drain
Nothing can stop it from filling again
Prahlad had heard his grandfather say that all living creatures spoke the languange, but he had not believed it, up until now. 

Shukracharya closed the lid of the chest and clasped it shut. There was a triumphant look on his face, as if he’d finally got what he had wanted for a long, long time. The rudranaag hissed loudly, as if it wanted to revolt against some unseen unfairness. But she looked like she was helpless- for the moment atleast.
“Take good care of them.” She hissed finally, and dove back down from where she had come.

Shukracharya turned around with the chest held firmly in his hands. "Where's Prahlad?"
Samhlad looked startled. "He was right here!"
At exactly that time, they saw Prahlad's head appear over the edge.
"What are you doing there!"
"Nothing...I was just...hanging around." replied Prahlad.

Viprachitti was snoring peacefully when they arrived at the chariot, but he woke quickly enough when he felt something long and hairy scratching the insides of his nose. "Whassissthass!" He observed, trying to snort and sneeze at the same time. Samhlad laughed and threw the shrimp with its giant whiskers back into the ocean. 
"Lets go home!" He announced happily. His mood had vastly improved after exiting the water. They mounted the trunk into the carriage.
“Once you get home, you must bring the chest to Holika.” Shukracharya told them. “She will know what to do.”
Ahlad frowned. “Holika?” Holika was their elder sister, daughter of their uncle.
"Take the trunk to her as fast as you can. Do not stop anywhere. Haste is paramount."
When he saw the rotund, half-asleep figure of Viprachitti dolefully nodding his head, he asked, "You do remember the way back, don't you?"  
"Like the back of my own hand." boasted Viprachitti. Shukracharya glared at him, as if he had his doubts, but did not say it. "Don't stop anywhere." was his final advice.
And then he was gone...vanished into the darkness of the night, the same way he had come.
"Alright boys, its time to hit the North Road!" Viprachitti announced. "But first, lets grab something to eat!"
"I thought Guruji told us not to stop anywhere." said Prahlad, as they started off in the wrong direction.
As if in answer, a rumbling sound emanated from somewhere inside Samhlad's gut. "I think I'm with Viprachitti on this one." He announced firmly. 
-x-

Dry again, and immensely hungry, they sat down at a table in one corner. Hlad slid the trunk under the table as Samhlad started thumping the table, trying to attract the attention of the innkeeper.
It was a dusty, sleepy old place run by a guy called Dabraal. A very busy place at one point, while the digging at Mandrachal was at its peak, the inn had now fallen to disuse and neglect. The interiors were steepled in darkness and smelled like seaweed. A thick layer of grime and dirt covered the wooden tables. And the customers who lay around at those tables were as firmly and immovably settled in as the grime.
Dabraal was wiping the wooden cutlery, but he scurried over when the pitch of Samhlad's summons reached a critical threshold. 
"Ah there you are! My young masters. Back for some more, eh? Heh..heh!" He was small and tubby and spoke very fast, punctuating each sentence with a nervous laugh, as he blatantly took credit for his wife's cooking. "But then what choice did you have? You know, just now I was telling here me wife that those four gentlemen, err five, I suppose- pardon me, I hadn't seen the little one there." He grinned oafishly at Prahlad. "I was telling her those five gentlemen won't go nowhere except here, if once they've sampled Dabraal's fine cooking. And here you are, the very next day! But my food is like that, I daresay- it attracts people such that they abandon their travel, and they turn back, and they can go no further until they've had some of it in their bellies."
"We...umm...yeah, sure." Viprachitti, who didn't want to discourage him, merely nodded. “So, well, can we get some - wait, what is that horrible smell?!” Viprachitti wrinkled his nose in disgust. He cast his glance around till he had honed onto the source of the ghastly smell. The source was the lit end of a large clay pipe, and the pipe was in the mouth of a large, broad shouldered man. He had a large round head which was bald on top but had a long ponytail emanating from the back. If there was any dissent amongst the rag tag of guests near him, his rippling chest and bulky biceps were deterrant enough that nobody had yet registered a complaint. Viprachitti did not feel like breaking the tradition. The bald headed man sat talking to a frail old man with a white beard.
"Hey that's the same old man who was lying knocked out on the plank." recalled Samhlad.
"Yeah?" Viprachitti regarded them both with a weary disdain. "Back to get even more drunk, I'm sure." 
Dabraal laughed nervously “I’m afraid I've been getting all sorts of guests of late..hehe...I'm sure you'll understand,” He shot an accusatory glance sidewise. “These mountain folk have no manners. And they've strange taste in food too, if you ask me. No meat, no mead. They actually asked me to bring them fruits! Fruits! Can you believe it?! And I told him-”
"So then what can you get for us?" asked Samhlad hungrily.  
"Well, if you fancy it, my daughter makes the best chicken soup you've ever tasted... And then there's some of that wild boar that you had last night. My wife can cook it with some rice. It goes nicely...very nicely indeed!"
They sat silently as they waited for their food to arrive. The four boys' faces looked tired but strangely excited at the same time. 
"Do you know how long it'll take for the eggs to hatch?" Prahlad asked. 
"Didn't you listen to Gurudev? They're not meant for us to play with. They are needed for an important ritual." Hlad replied.
"I heard that there's...you know...some kind of curse on them." Ahlad whispered in a conspirational tone. Viprachitti barely spared him a glance before turning his attention back to his meal. "That's just a rumor. Don't fill your head with nonsense." 
"Do they have something to do with the rain?" asked Prahlad. Viprachitti laughed. "Now where did you get that idea?"
Then Prahlad told them about the turtle and its song. "That's strange...that's from the 'Puzzle of the Ocean'." Said Hlad when he had finished.
"The Puzzle of the Ocean?"  
"Don't you remember grandpa teaching it to us...when we were kids? I suppose you were too small then. It goes something like this- 

To fill the cup you must use your brain
Take one from one, and one will remain
For if ever the cup of life shall drain
Nothing can stop it from filling again.

Its been a while since I heard it. You know, its strange but, father was very interested in that puzzle. He kept asking me to repeat it over and over again."
"What is this cup it mentions, I wonder." remarked Ahlad. "Or perhaps its just an analogy for something else...like a "
"No." Samhlad said matter-of-factly "It is talking about the Cup of Life". Viprachitti almost choked on the leg of wild boar he had been chomping on. 
"Shh...shut up!" he hissed, glancing furtively around. "Who told you about that?"
"I overheard father discussing it with Holika." replied Samhlad smugly."And don't worry about us getting overheard here. I mean, just look at this place..." 
He had a point. There was no activity around them at all save for the little bloodsucking flies that buzzed around the room. Right behind them a fat fisherman lay slumped at his table, passed out cold. There was a small group of local peasants who spoke in low voices among themselves. There were a few solitary sailors, who sat silently but belched loudly. And then there was the bald man with the thick pony tail and his companion. 
The little flies feasted undisturbed on the customers as they sat there with vacant expressions, too far gone to swipe them away. Their gazes hardly ever travelled beyond the cups on the table. The place was mostly silent, except for the buzzing and the belching. 
Nobody even glanced up when a very tall man, with a long hooked nose walked in. His clothes were covered in dust and his keen gaze was searching around the dark interior, till it came to rest on something round and shiny.
Vishwamitra made his way over and sat down across the man with the bald head. “I came as soon as I got your message, Angiras.” 
He saw that Angiras was accompanied by an old stooped man with a magnificently white beard who he didn't quite recognize.  
"Do I know you?" something about the face looked familiar. In response, the frail old man just nodded his ancient head. His eyebrows were so long and bushy that Vishwamitra could not even make out if the eyes were open or not. But that face...he was sure he had seen it before.
“So...what gives?" He asked, turning to Angiras. 
In reply Angiras nodded over his shoulder, once, towards Viprachitti and the boys.  
“Them?” Vishwamitra asked, wiping the dust from his forehead. "Those four kids?"
"Yes" It was the old man who answered him. "They were with Shukracharya last night." He had a very thin, raspy voice. "They went with him into the sea, in a black chariot. One that was drawn by sea-horses."
“A chariot driven by sea-horses?” Vishwamitra regarded him skeptically. "Where did they get sea-horses from?"  
"I don't know..." replied the old man wearily. "But well, where do you expect to get sea-horses from if not the sea?" He asked with a wink. And as he winked, one of his giant white eyebrows slipped, and Vishwamitra caught a glimpse of a familiar face. 
"Parvati!" blurted Vishwamitra so loudly that a few people turned around to look at him. 
"Shh" Parvati silenced him with a one-eyebrowed frown. 
"You shouldn't have come here...my lady. Its not safe..." began Vishwamitra, but thought better of it. Parvati was the daughter of Himavan, the King in the mountains. Bold and brave, she was as wild as the winds. And he knew she was more than capable of tackling any trouble. 
“Well, fancy finding you in a place like this… So when did you find the time to grow a beard?” he joked. 
Parvati giggled. “It is just a bunch of yak hair”
“Yak hair? Most ingenious…most ingenious” Vishwamitra beamed in appreciation as she adjusted the eyebrow back into place. “I doubt if even King Himavan can recognize you in that get up.”
"How is Rishi Vashisht?" she asked. Vishwamitra told them all about the coming clouds and their plans to move towards Roopkund. Parvati looked lost for a moment, as if she was trying to recall something. 
"I wonder what they're carrying in that chest?” Angiras brought her back to the present. The four kids had finished their meal, and they were dragging the huge metal trunk back to their carriage.
"I've no idea. But I think whatever is in there is the whole purpose of their little trip under the sea."
"Under the sea..." mused Angiras. "What the hell could they have got under the sea except for a bunch of sea shells"
"I don't know..." replied Vishwamitra. "And will you please stop smoking that, it smells like a dead rat.” He wrinkled his nose. Angiras ignored the pipe comment. “Do you think we should have a look for ourselves?” he suggested, flexing his biceps ever so slightly. 
Vishwamitra did not reply. He did not think it right to attack kids, enemies or not, nor did he want to blow Paravti's cover. "The only place they could've gone to is Mandrachal. But what could they have possibly got back from that snake infested volcano!"
Parvati sat looking at the smoke rising from Angiras's pipe. Then suddenly her eyes widened. "I think I know what could be in there!"
"What?" asked Vishwamitra and Angiras in unison.
"The question is not what, gentlemen." she replied, stroking her false beard thoughtfully. "The question is - how many?"
