It was dusk, and the roads were completely deserted. Noone and nothing moved. Outside the cave, Vashisht sat stretched out, tired, watching the sun sink in a lazy arc over the Western horizon. The light was already fading, had turned into a premature twilight due to the cliffs around. Much like his own prospects, he ruminated moodily. Infact, like the prospects of the whole wide world, now that he came to think of it. 

It had been more than two years since the devastation began. Two years since they last saw the outside world. Two years of darkness and uncertainty, and unsatiable hunger. Two years of living underground, doing nothing but looking out for a ray of hope to break through the clouds of misery and torcher. And the storm brewed yet, stronger than ever and without an end in sight.

People were saying it differently, but they were all thinking the same thing. From battle hardened soldiers to famished farmers, from parents who'd lost their kids to orphans who had lost their parents, from homeless shepherds to their hungry animals, everyone seemed to think it was the end of the world. The stone-sickness had destroyed hope as it had destroyed life. 
Even by optimistic estimates it appeared as if the worst was yet to come. It was about two years since the deadly clouds first rained. Just two years, and yet the world already seemed like a different place. The toxic rain and the sickness it caused had only been the start. To protect themselves people had gone underground, but it wasn't the end of their troubles. While it shielded them from the rain, it didn't save them from the war.  

Nevertheless, there were those who had not lost hope yet.
Vashisht had used his knowledge of physiology to create and try out all kinds of medicines. But it had looked utterly hopeless at first. Nobody could survive the stone sickness.
The stone-sickness was just one of the side effects of the toxic rain, but perhaps one of the worst. Those fortunate enough to get out of the rain in time - who got exposed to only a tiny amount of it- got off with burns and patches of dead, scarred skin. They were the lucky ones. A bit more of it, even a tiny bit, and the results could be far worse.
If once the toxins got absorped into the bloodstream, the sickness began. At first it was just the appearance of harmless looking grey dots on the faces and necks of the afflicted. Then they started complaining of a "stiffness" in their limbs. Soon the stiffness turned to fullblown paralysis while the grey dots spread, and the skin took a rough, hard texture. That's where the sickness had got its name - the patients felt like they were literally turning to stone! 
Depending on the location and amount that got absorped in their bodies, people suffered differently. Some lost the use of their limbs, some suffered internal organ damage. And those who got completely drenched in that rain, (and that was not so uncommon)- well, once the sickness had spread to the chest, their hearts simply stopped beating.
The weirdest part was that even after dying the bodies of the victims did not decompose as they normally would. They just became stiff and hard, and the victims of stone-sickness lay forever frozen - immobile statues of themselves.
It was nothing like any disease Vashisht had seen before. Allergies and illnesses he knew. Diseases spread from other animals, toxic chemicals present in plants and shrubs were familiar to him. But this was different. It came down with the rain. Rain - the thing that sustained and nurtured all life - had become a thing to fear. This was the reason they had all been forced to become nomads and live in caves. Nobody could walk abroad, outside, without fearing for their lives.
It was a grim situation, but Vashisht had accepted the challenge. He was a Rishi, and well trained in investigations and analysis. He decided to attack each aspect of the problem separately - the pain, the fever, the paralysis. He had managed to get his hands on a remarkable variety of herbs, despite the circumstances. After dividing the patients into groups, he had tried many things -different treatments, routes of administration, combinations of the herbs, etc - but after many a months of trial and error, he was not any closer to a definitive cure. That is, before the arrival of Arundhati. 
One day she had just turned up out of the blue. She was younger than him, but she was almost as well trained in the art of healing. She knew everything there was to know about the mountain herbs, and when she tried a herb called 'keeda-jadi', it worked! 
It wasn't a herb in the conventional sense in that it didn't grow on any plant. Infact it grew out of the head of a very large, brown worm - after it had died. That's also where it got its name from - ‘keeda’ means insect and 'jadi' means herb. It could not cure the stone-sickness completely but it worked to stop it from spreading, if taken in time. Its only limitation was that it eventually wore off- you had to keep taking the jadi from time to time to keep the sickness at bay. And hence its availability was critical.
Nevertheless, hope had been rekindled. Soon the word spread, as more and more of the survivors flocked to Vashisht's camp and fame of the keedajadi increased. Foragers from all over the land went in search of the jadi. But the keeda-jadi was proving to be incredibly hard to find, almost as hard as that other, impossible to find all-cure miracle-herb called the sanjeevani. 

After a hard day's work, Vashisht was sitting alone outside his cave cum clinic. A feeling of helplessness was growing on him as he sat there watching the empty road winding through the valley, thinking of the diminishing supplies of the jadi while the number of patients kept increasing. And once again, almost despite his own will, his eyes were drawn back to the mouth of the cave.
The entrance to his 'clinic' was like no other. To a clueless newcomer it would appear to be adorned by beautiful, life size humanoid sculptures. But the reason they looked so life like was because there actually used to be life in them. They were the ones who had not recieved keedajadi on time.
Vashisht had refuted appeals to move them. The statues served as grim reminders of the fate that awaited them, if they did not stay on their toes. But there were days he wished he had not. Looking at them always filled him with a feeling of injustice...the people of Kosala had been so happy, so kind. What had they done to deserve this? 
He shook his head - there was no point ruing over the past. He decided to get up and feed Kamdhenu. 
It was always a pleasure to feed his cow. Whenever he felt helpless and sad, he went to her, for she understood. He laid out some dried hay from a little pile that was still remaining. It was just a mouthful for the giant cow, but she mowed happily as she began chewing the hay. She was licking his fingers clean when something caught her attention and she shook her head, letting the bell around it jingle gaily. Vashisht looked back to see what it was, and was met with an unusual sight. Unsual, because it had been many days since he'd seen anything move on the valley road.
A solitary horseman was riding towards them at breakneck speed. His tall frame was stooped forward as he bent almost double to keep the horse going at that pace. The ride and the rider seemed to have accumulated a fair amount of dust from travelling, because with each bounce some of it was coming off, giving the overall appearance of a comet streaking in. When he reached Vashisht the rider jumped down and landed amidst a cloud of dust and sand. 
"Three...days..." He coughed, trying to clear his lungs of dust. His chest was heaving hard from the ride. "You have three days." He finished when he had caught his breath again. 
"Three days for what?" asked Vashisht, waving his hands, barely able to see the newcomer through the dust. 
"You need to move base - the clouds are headed this way." said the rider. Now properly dismounted from his horse, he stood towering over it. He was as lean as he was tall and had a large hooked nose. 
“Well, I thought it was about time anyway." Vashisht replied calmly. Matters of life and death were common these days. "We finished our last supplies of keedajadi yesterday...so now would be a good time to start searching for more.” Then his face broke into a smile. "Its good to see you again, Vishwamitra." Vishwamitra was an expert rider and knew the lands like the back of his hand. He had assisted Vashisht with his trials by procuring herbs from far and wide. "Vashisht, my old friend." replied Vishwamitra with a wink, and gave him a quick hug. 
Arundhati walked out carrying a pot of tea, and joined the two tall young men. She passed around the tea for them to share while they discussed their possibilities. There weren't enough utensils for all of them to drink at once. 
It was a discussion they had had before, and it was as always a tough choice. The problem was, the places that afforded good shelter were all in the foothills, while the keedajadi grew mostly at high altitudes. To ensure a higher chance of finding the jadi, they would have to take the harder, higher trails. They spent some time contemplating and dismissing the more unfavorable options.
“There is one place.....I don't know exactly how far it is from here, but its somewhere up there.” She pointed towards the North. "Its called Roopkund.” 
“Roopkund?” asked Vishwamitra, his heavy eyebrows furrowed. "Never heard of it."
"Not many people know of it. It is kind of hidden in the mountains." Arundhati hesitated. "I used to go there with my father, before he....before he..." she could not finish the sentence. It had been a month since he had succumbed to the sickness but she could still not bring herself to say it. Vashisht put a comforting hand on her shoulder, and she seemed to relax a bit.
“If this place has the jadi, then its something we must consider. How do we get there?” 
"We'll have to cross the Elephant pass. Then there are these giant meadows-"  
“The Elephant Pass?!" Vishwamitra was about to sip his tea but stopped short. "I know of it. It is about a week's trek from here...and the climb is tough. Its a bit of a hike, if you ask me." He paused, and glanced surreptitiously at Vashisht. "I've heard some strange things about the lands on the other side of that pass.” 
"Well, frankly we're at greater risk here." said Vashisht matter-of-factly."Waiting here is like waiting for death…a very slow, but certain death.” 
“We’ll need food to even get there.” said Arundhati. Vashisht put his hand on the face of the giant cow. "Thank god we've Kamdhenu" The big cow mowed loudly in reply, as if it understood everything. 
Vishwamitra took a sip of his tea, and beamed in appreciation. "This tea is really good!" he commented. "What did you put in it?" 
Arundhati immediately warmed up. It was her favourite thing to talk about her cooking, albeit with a bit of false modesty. Like Kamdhenu she too had warm, thoughtful eyes. "Oh nothing really! Just some ginger, a bit of cardamom...and -Whats that!?" she broke off mid sentence. Her gaze was fixed in the sky, where she had spotted something dark, flying towards them. The shape grew larger and larger- and then she screamed, for it was a giant griffin vulture. 
"Don't be scared." Vashisht chuckled. "It wouldn't to harm you." Atleast Kamdhenu seemed to think so, for it did not even flinch as the huge bird landed a few paces from it, and then hobbled over to where they were standing. Then it spoke in a clear, manly voice -"I bring a message from rishi Angiras."
"Wait...it can talk?" Arundhati whispered in amazement. She looked dazedly from the talking vulture to Vashisht and then down at the little pot in her hands. 
"I wonder what else I put in this tea." she said out loud to herself, sniffing at it suspiciously.

Vishwamitra was talking to the vulture in urgent tones. "Any activity at the Western front?" 
“Yes. That's the reason Angiras sent me to find you...he has tracked Shukracharya to the port near Mandrachal.”
"What! What is that old bat upto now.." drawled Vishwamitra more in irritation than in alarm. 
Arundhati kept maintaining her distance while Vashisht and Vishwamitra spoke to the vulture. Presently, Vishwamitra hopped back onto the back of his horse. "I'd better go check it out for myself..." he declared to noone in particular.
"You're leaving already?" asked Arundhati, only mildly surprised. Vishwamitra had always been like that - a man of motion. He'd always been more comfortable on the road than off. "Well, would you atleast like to have some water before you go?" she offerered sweetly.
"I'm fine." replied Vishwamitra. Then he pointed to the statues lining the mouth of the cave, and gave her a sardonic smile. "Sometimes, water can be bad for health."
And with that he rode off in the same direction that he'd come from.

"Mandrachal." echoed Arundhati thoughtfully, when he was gone. "Isn't that where...?" she left her words hanging.
The vulture gave her a sharp look with its keen, knowing eyes. 
"Yes..." sighed Vashisht ponderously, answering her unfinished question. "That's where it all began." 

